docs/index.md, before:

# Welcome!

This is the first & only student-run wiki of **Community Psychology**

## What is Community Psychology?

> Community Psychologists consider how communities impact the well-being of people.

### Some things we consider are:

- the well-being of communities
  (*empowerment, activism, & social justice*)
- how communities shape the well-being of people <---> how people shape the well-being of communities
  (*ecological models, relationships, healing*)
- what people understand about their own well-being & the well-being of their communities
  (*participatory action research methods*)
- how people define and relate to their communities
  (*diversity, marginalisation, cultural humility*)

### Common ideas that Community Psychologists build upon:

- liberation psychology
- pedagogies of the oppressed
- intersectionality (& Black feminist theories)
- social & feminist models of disability
- transnational feminism
- critical race theories
- arts-based methodologies
- social constructivism
- ecological systems models
- praxis
- reflexivity

### Quick links to learn more

1. Read more at the Society for Community Research and Action (SCRA)'s informational website:
    - [CommunityPsychology.com](https://www.communitypsychology.com/what-is-community-psychology/)

2. Access a free, online book introducing the field:
    - *[Introduction to Community Psychology: Becoming an Agent of Change](https://press.rebus.community/introductiontocommunitypsychology/)*, by Leonard A. Jason; Olya Glantsman; Jack F. O'Brien; and Kaitlyn N. Ramian (Editors).

## Can I contribute to this wiki?

**Yes!**

Check out our [contribution page](https://gra3wy.github.io/contribute/) to learn how!

Commit message:

links and content added to home and contribute

docs/index.md, after:

# Welcome!

This is the first & only student-run wiki of **Community Psychology**.

## What is Community Psychology?

> Community Psychologists consider how communities impact the well-being of people.

### Approaches to the Field

| The study or application of: | RELATED TERMS |
|---|---|
| the well-being of communities | *empowerment, activism, social justice* |
| how communities shape the well-being of people <-> how people shape the well-being of communities | *ecological models, relationships, healing* |
| what people understand about their own well-being & the well-being of their communities | *participatory & community-based action research* |
| how people define and relate to their communities | *diversity, inclusion, equity, marginalisation, cultural humility* |

### Common Concepts in the Field

(*Click the links to learn more*)

- [psicología de la liberación](https://www.researchgate.net/publication/279852723_La_Psicologia_de_la_Liberacion_25_anos_despues_de_Martin-Baro_memoria_y_desafios_actuales) / [liberation psychology](https://libpsy.org/welcome/defining-liberation-psychology/)
- [decolonization](https://psychiatryonline.org/doi/10.1176/appi.ajp-rj.2021.160406) / [descolonización](https://semanariouniversidad.com/suplementos/frantz-fanon-de-la-descolonizacion-al-pensamiento-critico/)
- [pedagogy of the oppressed](https://envs.ucsc.edu/internships/internship-readings/freire-pedagogy-of-the-oppressed.pdf) / [pedagogia do oprimido](https://iconografiadahistoria.com.br/2021/09/19/pedagogia-do-oprimido-a-educacao-como-pratica-libertadora/)
- [intersectionality](https://psycnet.apa.org/fulltext/2020-98089-002.html) (& Black feminist theories)
- [social & feminist models of disability](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/feminism-disability/)
- [transnational feminism](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/pdf/10.1080/02703149.2020.1774997)
- [critical race theories](https://neurodiversity.engr.uconn.edu/wp-content/uploads/sites/3154/2022/06/Dis-ability-critical-race-studies-DisCrit-theorizing-at-the-intersections-of-race-and-dis-ability.pdf)
- [arts-based](https://libguides.uml.edu/ABR), [solidarity](https://solidarityresearch.org/about/), & [participatory](https://actionresearch.mit.edu/what-par) methodologies
- [Indigenous epistemologies](https://opentextbc.ca/indigenizationcurriculumdevelopers/chapter/indigenous-epistemologies-and-pedagogies/)
- [social constructivism](https://gsi.berkeley.edu/gsi-guide-contents/learning-theory-research/social-constructivism/)
- [ecological systems models](https://socialsci.libretexts.org/Courses/Pasadena_City_College/Child_Developmental_Psychology_-_Topical_Approach/02%3A_Theoretical_Perspectives_in_Development/2.11%3A_Bronfenbrenner_and_Ecological_Systems)
- [praxis](https://sk.sagepub.com/reference/curriculumstudies/n90.xml)
- [reflexivity](https://open.oregonstate.education/qualresearchmethods/chapter/ch-6-reflexivity/)

### Quick links to learn more

| Resource | Link |
|---|---|
| 1. Read more at the Society for Community Research and Action (SCRA)'s informational website: | [CommunityPsychology.com](https://www.communitypsychology.com/what-is-community-psychology/) | |
| 2. Access a free, online book introducing the field by Leonard A. Jason; Olya Glantsman; Jack F. O'Brien; and Kaitlyn N. Ramian (Editors): | *[Introduction to Community Psychology: Becoming an Agent of Change](https://press.rebus.community/introductiontocommunitypsychology/)* (Book) |
| 3. Get updates on conferences, job postings, and networking opportunities with other students and professionals of community psychology in SCRA (Division 27): | [scra27.org](https://scra27.org/) |

## Can I contribute to this wiki?

**Yes!** Check out our [contribution page](https://gra3wy.github.io/contribute/) to learn how!
